h1. jQuery - Tagalize

Transforms a collection of links into a tag cloud. This plugin is very simple and takes for granted that your links are already sorted in the correct order. It then makes the first links big and gradually makes them smaller. You can also create a gradient effect on the links to further imply importantness.

If you set a fixed height on the container it can also adjust the font size to make the text fit into the container.

h1. How it works

Tagalize will first copy anything that isn't an &lt;a&gt; element into a variable and remove it from the DOM. It will then create two new elements inside the container a div with a unique ID and a class of <strong>tagalize-container</strong> and inside that a &lt;p&gt; element. All links in the container will be moved inside the element.

After that it will make size and color adjustments.

To make the text fit perfectly into the container set a fixed height on the tagalize-container class in your CSS.

h1. Usage

Example code

<pre>
<code>
&lt;!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"&gt;
&lt;html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"&gt;
&lt;head&gt;
		
	&lt;meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" /&gt;
		
	&lt;title&gt;Tagcloud Test&lt;/title&gt;
	
	&lt;script src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.2.6/jquery.min.js" type="text/javascript"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
	&lt;script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.tagalize.js"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
	&lt;script type="text/javascript"&gt;
	 $(document).ready(function() {
	   $('.tags-1').tagalize({
	     startColor: 'ff00cc',
	     endColor: 'ffffff',
	   });
	 });
	&lt;/script&gt;
	
	&lt;style type="text/css"&gt;
	 p {
	   padding: 0;
	   margin: 0;
	 }
	
	 .tags-1 {
	   width: 460px;
	   height: 285px;
	   background: #eee;
	   padding: 5px;
	 }
	 
	 .tagalize-container {
	   height: 275px;
	 }
	 
	 a {
	   text-decoration: none;
	 }
	&lt;/style&gt;
&lt;/head&gt;
&lt;body&gt;

&lt;div class="tags-1"&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;Lorem&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;ipsum&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;dolor&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;consectetur&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;sit&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;amet&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;adipisicing&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;elit&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;sed&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;do&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;eiusmod&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;tempor&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;incididunt&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#"&gt;labore&lt;/a&gt;
&lt;/div&gt;

&lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;
</pre>
</code>

h1. Options

Options and their defaults
<pre>
<code>
{
  maxTries:     20,         // Number of max tries to fit text into container. If your script is runnig slow, try lowering this
  startColor:   '000000',   // Start color of gradient - must be specified as hex, include # if you want
  endColor:     '000000',   // End color of gradient - must be specified as hex, include # if you want
  startSize:    2.5,        // Size of first tag in EM's
  sizeStep:     3,          // Number of tags before font-size is lowered, set this height if you've got alot of tags
  fontDecreaseStep: 0.1,    // Number of EM's to decrease font size with each step
  sizeToFit:    true,       // True if tags should be resized to fit container (needs .tagalize-container to have a fixed height)
}
</pre>
</code>